project-python
==============
README

Welcome to my first *open source* project: `project-python`. This repository (a.k.a. repo) is a collection of Python programs that I wrote while doing my internship as an <a target="_blank" href="https://www.spcollege.edu/hrapp/admin/positions.php?popup_id=631" title="External link to the job description for Instructional Support Specialist at SPC.">Instructional Support Specialist</a> (cf. Tutor) at the Learning Support Center of St. Petersburg College's (SPC) Clearwater campus in Florida (USA). These programs are solutions to the assignments that I assisted other students with during this semester and are provided here to help novice Python programmers learn the language's basic syntax and common control structures. A few of them have different versions, which are indicated in the file names, that evolved progressively from one to the other. Collectively, they range from beginner to intermediate in terms of the level of difficulty, are thoroughly commented (i.e., technically documented) throughout, and are intended for educational purposes only.

As a point of information, at the time of this writing, I'm not formally trained in Python and am currently teaching it to myself as part of the first learning objective for my internship and in order to facilitate students who are taking Introduction to Computer Programming at SPC. So I'm not a Python expert by any means and these programs may not be the best way to accomplish the required tasks. Nevertheless, they all work as expected and achieve the desired results. More importantly, all of the students that I've helped told me that they received "As" on their respective assignments. The textbook used for the course is *Starting Out With Python* (2nd ed.) by Tony Gaddis (Pearson, 2012).

Moreover, I'm only a junior computer programmer / software developer at the moment, who is finishing up my AS degree in Computer/Web Programming and Analysis and about to graduate from SPC with high honors later this month. My formal computer programming training has been focused on the *fundamentals* of C++, C#, Java and Objective-C, along with cross-platform mobile device and web applications development using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript, to prepare for an entry-level job in the field. So I'm relatively new to computer programming and admittedly still have a lot to learn.

Likewise, I'm also new to GitHub and am still discovering its many capabilities, features, and uses, especially as it pertains to sharing my source code with prospective employers, which is one of my internship learning objectives as well. Another one of my learning objectives involves researching *open source* projects and contributing something to one of them for addition to my resume.

However, I've been very busy with not only my various internship position's responsibilities but also many personal obligations and unexpected obstacles that have made pursuing these latter two learning objectives quite a challenge. For example, my home computer crashed recently with the dreaded "Blue Screen of Death" due to memory and disk errors, which required a friend's help in repairing and took over a week to fix. 

Although I've been able to get a pretty good grasp on the basics of GitHub from completing GitHub Bootcamp and further studying other related resources such as GitHub Help, I have not yet found an *open source* project to contribute to. Therefore, I decided to just start my own *open source* project in the form of this repo: `project-python`. Now I realize that there may be some differences of opinion and/or varied interpretations as to what *open source* means, and what constitutes an *open source* project. As such, let me clarify the context in which the term *open source* is being used herein. 

While I'm providing neither a license such as the GNU General Public License, nor a warranty of any kind with these programs, I'm sharing them all "as is" freely in a public venue via this GitHub repo, from which anyone is allowed to view and fork their source code. And, in its most basic form, *open source* refers to computer programs/software whose source code *"can be freely used, changed, and shared (in modified or unmodified form) by anyone"* (<a target="_blank" href="http://opensource.org" title="External link to opensource.org: Home of The Open Source Initiative.">opensource.org</a>).

So, according to the preceding explanation, as I understand it, this repo and the Python programs that comprise it are considered *open source* in nature and thus `project-python` should be regarded as an *open source* project, which is clearly my intent. Hence, I welcome other programmers to share their own Python programs, tips, tricks or comments here for educational purposes. And fork away, of course!  :)

Copyright &copy; July 2014 by Michael Brock. All Rights Reserved.
